[Noel] This week...
Semi-final. Ah!
[Noel] ...the bakers must enter
the unforgiving world...
Pastry out. Pastry in.
[Noel] ...of high end pâtisserie...
-This is not me.
-Ow.
So many things going on at once.
Ooh, chocolate.
[Noel] ...where perfection is king...
Oh, look, beautiful.
[Noel] ...and the smallest mistake...
I’m going rogue.
[Noel] ...could send them home.
Don't have time. Don't have time.
I don't know what I’m doing.
Is Kim-Joy okay?
Oh!
The person who is not
going through to the final is...
[theme music playing]
Noel, I’m a little bit
worried about this week.
I mean, partly ‘cause it’s the semi-final
but also it’s Patisserie and it’s French,
I don't really anything about it.
Don't worry, I’ve got this.
I’m half French.
No. Which half?
I don't know. My parents never told me.
-Oh, okay.
-It’ll be fine.
It’s Pâtisserie Week.
[Sandi] It’s the semi-finals
and in this baking battle royale,
four must be whittled down to three
for next week’s grand final.
I would love to be in the final.
But also there is that added pressure
because the judges
were really harsh last week
and you just don't
want to disappoint them.
I think it’s gonna be brutal this week.
The judging, the expectations,
so I’m really scared about this week.
[Rahul] I don't want to think about it now
‘cause it’s only gonna stress me out.
I’m pumped now. And like,
this is... Come on, it’s week nine.
I can't believe I’m still here.
[Noel] If they’re to make it to next week,
the bakers must survive
three intense pâtisserie challenges.
I think I can make stuff look pretty
and that’s kind of
a big part of pâtisserie.
I’m at my brink where I’m, like,
I don't think I’ve got
anything else to give.
But for the final,
I will find something from somewhere.
It’s gonna be emotional.
It’s gonna be totes emosh.
Hello, bakers, welcome back to the tent.
It’s the semi-final. How tense is that?
No. No tension at all.
Uh, for your semi-final
Signature challenge,
the judges would like you to make
24 dipped madeleines.
Now, you need to make two batches
of 12 madeleines each
and they need to be
two different designs and flavours.
Your dipping can be as creative
and decorative as you like
but you must produce clean, sharp lines.
Now, as it is the semi-final,
the judges are expecting
an extremely high standard.
Do you think we can say
semi-final a bit more?
I don't think we’ve said it enough really.
-Semi-final.
-It’s the semi-final.
-Yeah.
You’ve got an hour and a half
for your semi-final Signature challenge.
It’s the semi-final.
[Sandi] Yeah. On your marks...
-Semi-final.
-Get set...
-Bake!
Semi-final. Semi-final. Semi-final.
Semi-final. Ah!
It’s weird, there just being, like,
4 of us, ‘cause there was 12.
So, yeah, that is quite scary.
I never had madeleine.
Obviously, in India,
we don't even know what they are.
It’s semi-final week.
It’s Pâtisserie Week.
It’s all about finesse.
It’s about precision.
Madeleines, I think,
are deceptively difficult to do.
A perfect madeleine
has its completely classic shape.
It has to show the lines of the mould
so that when you turn it over,
you see these perfect ridges.
And on the other side there'll be a hump.
Not a great camel's hump,
just a gentle rise.
You’ve got to get that batter right,
right from the start.
You wanna light, fluffy Genoese sponge
but before you put the batter in an oven,
you’ve got to chill that batter down
so when the batter hits a hot oven,
it blows up and this is what creates
a gorgeous bump.
We want all these madeleines
to look superb.
So I’ve popped the madeleines
in in the freezer
because we’ve only got
a certain amount of time
and to get that bump you would normally
chill the batter overnight but...no, no.
[Rahul] The things that makes madeleines
different from other cakes
is the nice little hump.
That bulbous bump that you get,
the little camel hump.
The hump actually looks quite cute.
[laughs]
[Sandi]
Because it’s a Genoese style sponge,
the traditional madeleine recipe
relies on air beaten into eggs
to give it its rise.
That’s my eggs and sugar mixture.
About to whisk that
for about five minutes.
Get it nice, light and fluffy.
[Noel] However, with the all-important
chilling time severely limited,
all the bakers are using
a modern day shortcut.
I am adding one and a half teaspoon
of baking powder.
So I have some baking powder
going into my plain flour
so it’ll help give it a bit of a rise.
I’m trying to get that elusive bump.
-Hello, Ruby.
-Hello.
-Hi.
So, Ruby, your madeleines,
tell us about them?
My first batch is a raspberry and lemon.
So you have fresh raspberry
in the madeleine batter.
Are you, uh, freezing the raspberry?
No.
Okay.
-No.
-[Prue chuckles]
[Sandi] As well as her unfrozen
raspberry filled madeleines,
Ruby will be making an orange and stem
ginger flavoured batch,
which she’ll dip in dark chocolate
and coconut.
Just to pre-warn you, that the judging
is gonna be quite brutal.
Don't worry, Paul. I can take it.
It’s fine.
I shouldn't have said that, should I?
Don't. I mean, don't.
I really am very worried
about the judging.
-Well, good luck, Ruby.
-Thank you very much.
It’s fine.
You know what you’re doing.
Do I though?
[Noel] As if things weren’t tough enough,
Ruby’s going head-to-head flavour-wise
with two times Star Baker, Rahul.
[Rahul] I am going
with quite an original flavour.
I’m using one with lemon and raspberry
dipped in white chocolate.
The other is orange dipped in chocolate.
[Noel] Like Ruby, Rahul’s baking
fresh raspberries into his batter
while he’ll inject an orange curd
into the hump of his other madeleines.
Did you ever try it without baking powder
and just using the egg whites?
I did once but it didn’t have as high hump
as I wanted it to be
but one of mine is, should have the hump,
the orange one.
And the lemon one doesn’t have the hump
because raspberry seeps out
lots of liquid.
I’m getting the hump now.
-Sorry.
-I’m getting the hump now.
-What do you mean?
-He’s joking.
Good luck anyway, Rahul.
It’s the semi-final. No pressure at all.
[Sandi] As well as delivering
on the classic hump,
to succeed today the bakers have to take
the flavour of their madeleines
to a whole new level.
[Briony] This is actually a mint teabag.
It gives it a really, kind of,
delicate mint flavour.
So this is my orange batter.
Just adding the zest of something
really lifts a bake.
What’s that there? Is that a bit of lemon?
-Bit of lime.
-A bit of lime?
-For the mojito.
-Ah, craziness.
Craziness.
Now, uh, surely there’s alcohol in here
somewhere? I know you well.
-In it goes.
-Okay, what is it?
Uh, this is spiced rum.
Oh, a bit of pirate.
A bit of pirate rum.
Well, both my, uh, madeleines
are cocktails so, you know...
I love that about you.
[Sandi] Briony’s cocktail cakes
are one part espresso martini
to one part mojito, along with rum,
the sponge is flavoured
with lime zest and mint tea.
We’re not gonna get tea leaves
in our mouths, are we?
[Briony] Well, no, you do get a few
but they’re very, very fine.
I did go through
quite a lot of mint teabags
to find the ones that wouldn't
get stuck in your teeth.
[Paul] Well, good luck, Briony.
[Briony] Thank you. Thank you.
I will do my best.
[Paul] Thank you very much.
-Cocktails? Come on.
-[Briony] Yeah, come on.
-Who doesn't like a cocktail?
-Absolutely.
Prue’s all over this.
[laughs]
[Noel] With their batters made,
despite the race against the clock,
the bakers have to find time
to chill them.
I’m just gonna put it in the freezer
for 20 minutes
We’ve only got
an hour and a half for this challenge,
so ten minutes will do.
-[Noel] Semi-final.
-Yeah.
What about it?
[Noel] What will that mean?
-Will you be excited or are you scared?
-I’ll be really excited.
[Ruby] Look, how shocked would you be?
Let’s be honest, I didn't think
you were gonna get past week two.
[laughs] I didn't think so either.
So semi-final, yeah. I gotta stay focused.
I’ve not made them before,
so I’m not really sure,
you know, what makes a good madeleine.
[Noel] She might be unfamiliar
with these small French sponges
but Kim-Joy’s aiming for perfection
with her lemon dipped ginger madeleines
and her orange flavoured versions,
which will be transformed
into cute little bunnies.
I knew there would be animals
in there somewhere.
I couldn't let you down, Prue.
Well, if you get the flavours right,
you’ll be doing really well
because we know
that you will decorate very accurately.
-Get your flavours right.
-You’re very arty.
Very good eye.
Ah, that’s nice coming from you, Noel.
Your stuff looks beautiful, always.
Bakers, you are halfway through,
halfway through.
The semi-finalists can only hope
their batter is sufficiently chilled.
Well, I think I have to go with it
because I don't really have
much option, do I?
[Sandi] Wait any longer...
Oh, sweet Lord.
[Sandi] ...and they won’t have time
to bake and decorate.
This is the lemon one.
This one definitely needs a little less.
[Sandi] Consistency is key if they’re
to get the classic madeleine shape.
[Ruby] Not ideal but I think
maybe it’s the flour I’ve used.
I’ve used double zero
so I think it’s too fine.
I guess you’ll only really know
when it’s come out.
For me, a madeleine has got to have that
characteristic bump, obviously.
But not a huge hump.
[Paul] No, and again I worry
because they’re all actually using
the baking powder method.
See, it almost distorts the overall look
of the madeleine.
[exhales] Okay.
[Prue] And the other thing
is all this business
of putting raspberries in
is a bit of a risk.
It’s gonna be interesting to see
how they cope with this.
It’s only an hour and a half.
-There’s not much room for manoeuvre.
-[exhales]
If you get it wrong,
you can’t do them again.
[Prue] Yeah.
And they’re going in
for about ten minutes.
[Sandi] These first few
critical minutes in the oven
will reveal if they’ve done enough
to create the hump.
It’s the temperature difference
that gives it that bump.
The batter being cold,
the tray being cold.
The bake is ridiculously important
in a madeleine.
It has to be spot on.
I shouldn't have put the raspberries in.
Bakers, you have 30 minutes left.
Half an hour.
-I love watching you work. Powerful.
-Yeah.
Right, uh, what am I doing?
[Noel] As this is Pâtisserie Week...
There’s no time to even breathe.
[Noel] ...artistry and finesse
are all important.
So many thing going on at once.
Ooh, chocolate.
[Noel] So the bakers must use
the remaining precious time
to create the all-important
finishing touches.
No. No. No.
Ah, it smells good. What’s in there?
That’s basically orange curd.
Semi-final.
Yeah, I’m not really thinking about that
because then I’ll panic and everything
is going to go wrong.
-No.
-So I’ll just,
I’ll just be not think about what it is
and then we’ll see.
Yeah, I’m pretty much
getting every other word.
That’s it, really.
Apart from the one you need?
No. Nothing there at all.
Okay, we’ve just
entirely stopped communicating.
Sorry? Oh, no.
They’re just not humped at all.
They’ve got a hump.
Yeah, the rise looks good.
Just 30 seconds.
[gasps] What’s happened?
Mine are so flat.
I think it’s definitely the flour.
Think I’m gonna go for it.
Yeah, they look nice.
[Kim-Joy] I’ll get these out.
Kim-Joy’s looks incredible.
I think they’re good. I’m happy.
Look at that madeleine. It looks amazing.
Yeah. It’s a good rise.
These didn't go to plan.
[Rahul] This is not right.
I shouldn't have put the raspberries in.
They look all right. They look nice.
But I just put a little less batter,
that’s it.
I’ll go and get the red cocoa butter one.
All right. Don't worry. I’ll man the fort.
They do look a little bit small.
Is that good or bad?
You’re not supposed to cut madeleines
but I’m going rogue.
Just keep doing it. Keep doing it.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes,
just 15 minutes.
Ah!
I am sat down now so that means
it's decoration time.
[Sandi] The judges
are expecting two batches
of exquisitely decorated madeleines.
Quickly, quickly dip these.
[BRiony] He’s a bit wonky.
He’s a bit wonky.
[Sandi] Getting them right
is all about precision.
You’re running. Why are you running?
I know. Not long left
and I’ve got 12 bunnies to pipe.
This is, on its own, a great sentence.
[Kim-Joy] I like doing, like, cute stuff,
you know, that kids would like as well.
It makes me happy.
Okay, that was very shaky.
[Ruby] Oh, I’m gonna get
absolutely annihilated.
Bakers, you have one minute,
just one minute.
[Rahul] My hands are shaking so, so badly.
It’s not in any way set.
Oh, no, no. There is no point doing that.
No point doing that.
Just go with the freeze-dried
raspberries straight ahead.
They just don't look as pretty
as everyone else’s.
-Bakers...
-Your time is up.
[sighs] It’s just rubbish.
I knew yours would be super cute, Kim-Joy.
They’re adorable.
How did you get that huge hump?
You’ve got a good hump on you, Kim-Joy.
I’ll tell you that for nothing.
Oh, God, what an atrocious mess.
[Noel] The bakers’ madeleines
now face the judgement of Paul and Prue.
[sighs]
Overall, I think they look amazing.
There’s lots of lines,
-it’s defined.
-Yeah.
That’s the perfect hump for this.
What do you think of these, Prue?
[Prue] When you see the two together
you think obviously
those have risen better.
Yeah. Yeah. It’s the same batter.
It’s just the raspberries.
[Prue] Yes.
-Okay.
-That’s very good.
The raspberry perfectly balances
the white chocolate.
[Paul] It has affected the overall look
but to counter that you’ve managed
to put a raspberry in
that creates a great amount of flavour.
Okay, well, let’s try the orange one
with the chocolate.
Yes. It has a little bit of orange curd
in the middle.
-I don't know... some of...
-[Prue] Look at that.
[Paul] I can see that,
right in the middle.
That’s absolutely delicious.
Thank you.
[Paul] I mean, really good.
You’ve managed to put the feathering on.
The hazelnut really
marries well with it as well.
That’s a great madeleine.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] That is a real little triumph.
-Well, triumphant.
-Very good.
-Thank you, Rahul.
-Thank you.
Rahul? Rahul?
Stop grimacing. Smile.
Oh, crap.
-Hello, Ruby.
-Hello.
-Hey, Rubes.
-Hello, Rube.
They’re a little bit of a mess.
There’s a disaster on both of them.
Looks like it’s been fried almost.
Too much butter
on the inside of your tray.
-Not much of a hump.
-Yeah.
It’s got almost the texture
of a slightly under baked polenta cake.
-It’s heavy.
-Right.
I think your flavour's fantastic.
You have got orange.
-You have got the stem ginger.
-Yeah.
It’s a shame it doesn’t look great
but the flavour of it's very good.
This is the one with the raspberry, in it?
Yeah.
Same thing. Bit sad.
Flavour’s amazing though.
-Not your best.
-No.
Flavour’s good.
[Ruby] I mean, I’ll take that.
If I’m being honest.
I’m gonna take that as a win.
I like your rather zany icing
but we were looking for perfection.
The hump’s actually not bad.
It could be a little bit bigger
but it’s not bad.
That looks like nice sponge, doesn't it?
Hmm.
I’m not getting the lime.
No? Okay. Just the mint?
Hmm. Struggling with the mint as well.
Ah.
If you said that was vanilla,
I’d believe you.
Oh, okay.
-But espresso martini, surely,
-Surely. Hopefully.
that’s gonna be the one. Hmm?
[Prue] Because this will be stronger?
[Briony] Yes.
-Hmm, I love the coffee bean flavour.
-Thank you.
It’s just delicious.
That sort of crunchy, strong coffee.
[Paul] It’s a shame about the colour.
Think it is a little bit too dark.
-[Briony] Yeah.
-I think the flavour’s fantastic.
-Lovely.
-Oh, good. Okay, thank you.
As I expected, they’re beautifully iced
and they’re very neat
and they’re very uniform.
But I can see immediately that
you’ve got too much
baking powder in there.
-You’ve got a big bump at the back.
-[Kim-Joy] That’s, that’s...
You see the way they’re almost...
it’s pregnant.
I’m not getting a massive amount
of flavour in that one.
You certainly get the citrus in the icing.
You don't get any flavour
from the madeleine itself.
It’s almost not enough sweetness
and not enough lemon.
[Paul] Hmm. Be fascinating to see
what the other one’s like.
[Kim-Joy] And that’s the orange one.
[Sandi] You can actually smell the orange.
-The flavour’s much better.
-Okay.
Beautiful orange in the sponge.
The orange icing compliments each other.
These ones I love.
[Paul] Yeah. Orange is a big hit.
-So it’s just half good.
-Thank you.
Thank you. [laughs]
Don't know, I don't really know what
madeleines are meant to be like.
I just thought
the bigger the hump the better.
I had been worrying
about the lack of hump,
bump, lump, whatever you want to call it.
Can I ask you something?
Why are people laughing about hump?
[Sandi] The bakers are about
to take on high end pâtisserie
in the longest ever Technical
seen in the tent.
Hi, bakers. Welcome back
to your Technical challenge,
which today has been set for you by Prue.
If you don't like it
I do have her email address.
Uh, any advice, Prue?
You’ve all got a freezer.
Use it.
There we go, and indeed, off you to go.
What are they up to today?
Prue is gonna give Paul a makeover.
-[Sandi] Wow.
-He wants to look like a geisha girl.
[Sandi] That is not gonna be a stretch.
Okay, for your Technical challenge
Prue would like you to make
a torta setteveli.
This pâtisserie must be comprised
of seven layers.
Two light chocolate Genoese sponges,
a silky smooth hazelnut bavarois,
a crunchy praline base
and a chocolate mousse.
[Sandi] Quite a lot of words there I think
you didn’t know what they meant.
Most of them.
You have three and a half hours
for this almost impossible task.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake!
Oh, my good Lord.
[Ruby] Never heard of it. Never made it.
Don’t know what half the elements are.
It’s the kinda thing you’d see
in a shop and think,
"Wow, that’s complicated.
I won’t bother making that."
I really don't like Technicals.
So, Prue, torta setteveli.
What a fantastic looking cake
for the semi-finals.
[Prue] I know, it’s beautiful, isn’t it?
In English, it’s called
the seven veils cake.
I mean, it’s an absolute indulgent,
decadent feast.
Let’s have a look at these layers,
shall we?
[Prue] I know, I’m so excited about them.
[Paul] Look at that.
[Prue] It has two layers
of chocolate Genoese
and two layers of hazelnut bavarois,
a praline crunch layer
and a chocolate mousse on the top.
Where can they go wrong with this cake?
The main problem will be timing as always
because this cake is in
and out of the freezer,
so that the next layer will set.
And then at the end,
we want this perfect mirror glaze.
It has to be just set and silky.
It’s gorgeous.
Even a professional pâtissier
would be under huge pressure
to produce this.
We are asking the near impossible.
It says to make the Genoese batter.
Try and get as much air into it
as you possibly can.
[Briony] Gotta watch everyone.
Everyone’s on their game, you know.
Especially that guy.
That looks super.
It’s really holding its shape.
[Briony] So I’ve got to very carefully
fold this flour
and cocoa into the eggs and sugar.
I hope that’s okay. I’m a bit worried now.
Just hope I’ve not knocked out
too much air now.
"Bake."
Right, 25 minutes I think.
God, I’m so hot already.
"For the praline, toast the hazelnuts
and make praline."
[Briony] I love an instruction like that.
[Kim-Joy] I’ve never actually
made a praline
but you just make a caramel
and chuck it over the nuts. [laughs]
[Ruby] Come on. Cool quickly.
"When the praline is set, make a paste."
So I guess you just blend it all up.
[Briony] Right, so that’s
the praline paste.
I’m just onto the hazelnut bavarois now.
What’s a bavarois?
Someone tell me.
It’s basically custard set with gelatine.
-Do you know what a bavarois is?
-No.
I think I’m the only one in here
that doesn’t.
I don't think so. Noel and I
are leading the way
of people who don't know what...
Yeah, but you guys present. You’re not...
We’re not bavarois people?
You’re not supposed to be bavarois people.
You don't have to be.
No. It’s a good name for a band though,
-Bavarois People.
[Briony] "For the hazelnut bavarois,
mix 175 grams of the praline paste
combined with milk
and 300mls of the cream. Make a custard."
Just keep whisking. Keep it smooth.
"Remove from heat, stir in the gelatine.
Whisk the cream to soft peaks
and fold into the custard."
It smells fantastic.
I have no idea what I’m doing
but it smells amazing. Chill. Okay.
[Briony] I’m just making
the praline layer.
65 grams of very melted chocolate.
"Add a [stammers] feuilletine
and remaining praline paste. Set aside."
[Briony] It’s like a really posh
Rice Krispies cake, isn’t it?
I think that's it.
[Sandi] The bakers now have
two and a half hours remaining
in this epic Technical challenge.
Right, let’s get this cake out.
[Ruby] Looks okay. It’s not flat.
[laughs]
It should be done to be honest.
Yeah, I think it’s all right. It’s risen.
[Noel] Do you talk to it?
[Kim-Joy] I think he’s saying he’s cooked.
[Noel] Wow. That’s rude.
That cake was rude to me.
Oh, what did he say?
[Noel] I can't say on camera.
[laughs]
Wow. That’s so rude.
You don't even know my mum.
-[laughs]
-See you later. Good luck.
Just need to figure this through
‘cause I’ve got to assemble.
[Rahul] This is very...
I don't know to say it...
Little bit nerve wracking as well.
"Slice the sponge horizontally.
Place one slice in the bottom
of the cake tin."
[Ruby] "Spoon the praline crunch."
[Rahul] "Each layer needs to be equal."
[exhales]
Okay, I think that’s about as even
as I am gonna get it.
"Then add half the bavorois."
If it doesn’t set then I can't really put
anything on top.
[Briony] It’s still pretty runny
so freezer is the way forward.
[Rahul] It’s gonna take ages to set.
The freezer is my friend. It is.
Right.
[Noel] Bakers, you are halfway through.
Wow. I didn't see you
‘cause you sort of blend in today
with the background.
So chocolate mousse.
I’ve never done a chocolate mousse.
[Ruby] "First make a chocolate ganache
with 100ml of cream."
"The thickness of the ganache depends
on the ratio of cream to chocolate."
[Kim-Joy] It’s a bit liquid.
"Whisk the 250ml of remaining cream
and fold into the ganache."
I don't know how to get it thicker.
I think I just put it in the whisk.
I think this should work.
I’ve just really got to zoom.
Okay, that's all wrong I think.
I just don't know how to make
a thick chocolate mousse.
That’s it. I’m going home.
Oh, no. Is Kim-Joy okay?
-You okay?
-[Kim-Joy] Yeah.
I think I’m just ready to go home.
I’ve never made a chocolate mousse.
I don't know what I’m doing.
-You all right?
-No.
You hate Technicals, don't you?
-Is it going all right?
-Yeah. [sniffs]
-No.
-Ooh, no.
You’re gonna be okay though, right?
I’ll be fine.
I’m just gonna chuck a glaze on it,
even if I don't get the mousse on it.
I know I’m gonna be last place
but I’m gonna try ‘cause I’m not
getting a mousse on there.
It’s gonna be all right.
Bakers, you have one hour, just one hour.
[Briony] Right, what have I got
left to make? "Mirror glaze."
So I have done a mirror glaze before.
They literally show every single flaw.
Basically whisk cocoa powder
and double cream,
sugar and water and bring them to a boil.
Gotta add in the gelatine now.
Big blob of gelatine.
And it is my first even mirror glaze.
Maybe it’s a little bit too thick.
It quite gloopy.
[Rahul] Okay.
Yeah, it’s definitely set.
It’s done.
[Briony] Yeah, they’ve set,
which is really good.
So it needs to be covered
in chocolate mousse.
Basically, trying to get it smooth
as quickly as possible.
"Freeze until set."
I’m trying to make
the chocolate mousse again.
I just don't think Technicals
are my thing.
How much time’s left?
Bakers, you have half an hour remaining,
half an hour.
[Briony] "To decorate
make tempered chocolate curls."
Scaring me a little bit.
Right, I’m gonna try
and temper chocolate. LOL.
It should be about 32 I think.
[Rahul] Oh, no. This is annoying.
I stupidly make it too hot.
-[Noel] Hello.
-Hello.
It looks like you’re gonna cry. Don't cry.
-I’m trying not to.
-I’ll cry for you.
No, please don't cry for me.
Please don't cry.
Please don't cry on the chocolate.
[Kim-Joy] This is for the chocolate curls.
[Ruby] Is that what it is?
It’s not very curly but...
They look all right.
They’re curls and they’re chocolate.
Oh, I should have done it the other way.
[Kim-Joy] This looks like a disaster.
[Briony] Freezer.
I’m just gonna leave it a minute.
Not that it’s gonna set in a minute.
[Sandi] There’s only 15 minutes left
of this complex
three and a half hour Technical
and all the bakers have yet to apply
their seventh and final layer.
The mousse is frozen now.
Let’s get this glaze on it.
[Noel] One baker is still struggling
with her sixth, the chocolate mousse.
Argh.
Come on. Please cover.
[Rahul] Something is wrong here.
Mirror glaze has just set too much.
It’s not good. It’s not good.
[Briony] Come on. All the way.
It’s kinda gone quite gloopy.
Bakers, you have five minutes,
just five minutes.
-[exhales]
-Argh.
[Kim-Joy] It’s a bit liquid. But actually,
that might be spreadable.
[Briony] Man, that looks such a mess.
[Rahul] I just have to go with it now.
Bakers, you can do this.
I’m literally just smudge it round
so I get something on there.
-I can do a tidy up on the board.
-Put some hazelnuts on.
[exhales]
There’s the chocolate curls to go on.
Bakers, you have one minute remaining.
[Kim-Joy] That is not going to be set.
Right, bakers, your time is up.
[exhales]
[Sandi] Please bring
your torta setteveli up.
Rahul, bring your tortoise settee up here.
[Noel] Paul and Prue are looking for
perfectly glazed torta settevelis
that when cut will reveal
seven even layers of sponge,
bavarois and mousse.
Hmm.
Shall we start with this one?
We’ve got a shine.
Struggling a little bit to get
the chocolate down by the side.
[Prue] Very dark chocolate that.
[Paul] It is dark though, isn’t it?
You can see a lot of the layers.
Fairly even as well, aren’t they?
It tastes great.
The chocolate’s very rubbery.
It’s sort of PVC overcoat.
It is. It’s like a pair of
incontinence pants, you know.
[all laughing]
[Prue] Okay, next one.
That mirror glaze is beautiful.
[Paul] Fairly even as well.
And it’s right over.
[Paul] But what does it look like inside?
-The layers look good.
-[Prue] Beautiful.
[Prue] The mousse layer is delicious.
[Paul] Bavarois good.
[Paul] If you look at this, this thing
you can just pull away and it melts.
It’s soft and edible. That is very nice.
[Paul] Right, moving on.
There is a shine and it sort of covers
all of it, so it looks fairly neat.
But obviously the chocolate went on
when the mousse wasn't quite set enough.
So you’ve got a bit of marbling there.
Ooh, very nice layers.
Although where’s the mousse?
That mousse seems to have blended in
with the top, hasn't it?
[Prue] Yes, there is very little mousse.
[Paul] That mousse is very thin.
Hmm. Good praline.
Nice bavarois. Not enough mousse.
Hmm. Now there’s obviously been
serious issues
with this chocolate mixture.
There was obviously a bit of a rush
near the end.
It’s got a nice shine to it though.
[Prue] This is nearly as dark
as that first one.
-[Paul] It is. Yeah, I know.
-And as rubbery.
Hmm.
You can’t eat that chocolate coating,
it’s too rubbery.
[Sandi] Paul and Prue will now rank
the cakes from worst to best.
Okay, in fourth spot
is this one.
It’s me again.
Rahul, you didn't cover the whole cake
with the chocolate mixture
and it was a bit like rubber.
In third place, we have this one.
Briony, you know the outside
was very rubbery.
Yeah. Got that. Yep.
In second spot, is this one.
Me. [laughs]
I actually quite like this cake.
The layers were very neat,
although, there’s very little mousse
there at all.
I didn't have much time at the end
so I put the mousse on,
put the glaze on, that’s why
it’s kind of merged a bit.
But nevertheless, it did taste good
and it looked pretty elegant too.
Which means that this is number one.
[Briony] Yay, Ruby.
The mirror glazing is perfect.
Layers were delicious.
It’s a beautiful cake.
Thank you.
What happened there then?
I’m really surprised at that.
Never made a bavarois before.
Turns out it’s delicious.
I cannot believe I got second.
I was convinced I was gonna be fourth.
I thought about giving up for about
ten seconds then I was, like, no.
It’s okay.
As soon as something good happens,
something bad just comes behind it.
[Briony] I think it’s anyone’s game
to be honest with you.
Genuinely think it will very much
be on the Showstopper tomorrow.
[Sandi] Just one challenge stands
between the bakers
and a place in the final.
We often sit here and we say, you know,
it’s all to play for and the Showstopper
is gonna be the thing
-but it genuinely feels that way.
-[Prue] Yeah, exactly.
I mean, it’s almost as if we needn’t
have bothered with yesterday.
[Noel] Don't tell them that.
[Paul] But having said that...
Yeah, don't them that
‘cause they were working very hard.
Kim-Joy was crying.
I know but that’s gone. But that’s gone.
-Yeah.
They just have to put their all
into the Showstopper.
It’s extraordinary because if you think
what happened yesterday,
Rahul and Ruby just flipped, didn't they?
You don't mean they went crazy,
you mean Ruby did very badly
in the Signature
and then did brilliantly in the Technical.
In the Technical, and Rahul
the other way round.
[Paul] Kim-Joy’s
in a slightly stronger position
because she’s been the most consistent.
Briony’s probably in the weakest position.
But I think it’s going to come down
to personality.
Kim-Joy had a real wobble yesterday
and it’s whether she can hold it together.
Rahul doesn't believe in himself.
See, I think the steadiest one
of the four is Briony.
[Prue] She has the personality.
She’s comes back fighting
and I wouldn't be surprised at all
if she did go through.
[Sandi] I don't want any of them to go.
I’ve become so fond of them.
-Can’t we have...
-I know you old misery guts
but I am very fond of them.
-Can’t we have four in the final?
-No.
[Noel] The semi-finalists now face
the most complex patisserie challenge.
Morning, lovely bakers,
and welcome to your semi-final
Showstopper challenge.
Today, Paul and Prue
would like you to create
a Parisian window
filled with 36 pâtisseries.
Your Parisian window must consist
of three types of pastry.
Choux pastry, pâté sucrée
and puff pastry mille-feuille.
Have I said that right?
Mille-feuille.
[Sandi] Ah, so very nearly there.
The flavour and decorations
of your patisseries is entirely up to you.
You have five hours.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake!
[Sandi] This semi-final Showstopper
is taking the bakers
out of the home kitchen...
Pâtisserie is all about finesse.
This is not me.
[Sandi] ...and thrusting them
into the high end world
of professional Parisian pâtisserie...
I’m the most likely one
to crack under pressure.
[Sandi] ...where there’s no room
for error.
I’d definitely say
this was the toughest challenge,
for absolute certainty.
We’ve got five hours
but there’s literally no time
to stop in that five hours.
No joke around to me.
So I need to get my head down
and just get cracking with it.
[Paul] When you think of patisserie,
you naturally think of those
beautiful Parisian pastry shops
with amazing, exquisite cakes
in the window.
I’ll be judging this one certainly
as a professional baker.
So they need to get as close as possible
to pure perfection.
Usually, I rank flavour right at the top
but the thing about pastry
is they are the luxury
at the end of a meal,
you’re no longer hungry.
So they have to look so appetising
and so beautiful
that you can’t resist them.
[Noel] Although the bakers have five hours
for this colossal challenge,
they can't rest for a moment.
It’s a bit of a marathon. Pastry marathon.
[Noel] They have a number of different
flavour elements to create.
Actually, I’m gonna put
the jam sugar here now.
[Noel] As well as three different
types of pastry.
[sighs]
[Noel] The trickiest of which
is the puff pastry for the mille-feuille.
I’m doing a rough puff
as opposed to a full puff.
So I’m grating in the butter
as opposed to laminating it.
Kind of like a quick version of puff.
[Sandi] This fast track to flakiness
should allow the bakers
to achieve the trademark multiple layers
but in half the time.
These are just going into chill now.
[Sandi] After a poor start
to her semi-final...
Go big or go home.
[Sandi] Briony’s the only baker choosing
not to take the rough puff shortcut.
This is a full puff.
Definitely pushing myself more.
But you’ve got to though,
it’s the semi-final,
you just can’t go safe
and hope for the best.
Everything’s riding on it today, for sure.
[Noel] Briony’s full puff pastry
will take centre stage in her
coffee and walnut flavoured mille-feuille.
Her window display will also have
a black forest gateaux inspired tartlet
with chocolate domes
and funky red choux pastry éclairs.
At this stage, it’s about professionalism
and that’s the way
you’ve gotta approach it,
as a professional now, not as an amateur.
-Oh, no, I know.
-It’s quite difficult to make that jump.
Yeah, absolutely.
I’ve been having a look at kind
of trendy pâtisserie at the minute
in Paris and places like that.
It’s quite trendy, it’s quite colourful.
I like putting a bit of a twist on things.
I don't like doing your bog standard.
-[Paul] Good luck. Thank you, Briony.
-Thank you very much. Thank you.
[Sandi] Having never been to France,
Rahul’s pâtisserie research has been
limited to his local high street.
I’ve just been to a few
that is around Sheffield
and looking in the windows and said,
"Oh, my God, that looks so, so pretty."
So I’m just going for that kind of look.
Very traditional look.
I’d love to be a pâtisserie chef
but I wanted to keep the price
very down to earth
so that everybody can afford it.
Not, like, charging £10
for a piece of mille-feuille.
[Sandi] In his bid
to become the people’s pâtissier,
Rahul is keeping costs down
with some uncharacteristically
pared back recipes.
He’s playing it safe
with lemon and blueberry mille-feuille,
caramel éclairs
and classic glazed fruit tarts.
[Rahul] This is pâté sucrée
for my tartlets.
Sucrée’s like a sweet shortcrust pastry.
It’s very, very short but very buttery.
Hmm, I should have rolled it
a little bit thicker.
-Hello, how are you?
-Alive.
Alive? Are you though?
[laughs] Let’s check.
Check it. Yeah.
Not sure. There’s no pulse.
[laughing]
[Noel] The perfect French tart
should have thin, crisp pâté sucrée...
Ooh, yeah.
[Noel] ...baked to perfection.
[Rahul] Going in.
They’re blind baking at 175
for about 15 minutes.
[Noel] With pâté sucrée in the oven...
Ah, what else I’m doing?
[Noel] ...the bakers must use
every precious minute
to prepare their fillings...
[Rahul] This is a crème pâtissière
for my tartlets.
[Noel] ...which must not only
be silky smooth
but show off the bakers’ flair
for flavour.
[Ruby] This is my lemon verbena filling.
Verbena leaf is a really intense
lemon flavour. It’s quite sherbety.
[Sandi] In a bid to keep things simple,
Rahul’s crème pat will form the basis
of all three of his pastry fillings.
Ah, okay.
No pressure.
[Sandi] Whereas Briony is continuing
to throw everything at the challenge.
[Briony] Just keep going.
There is no time to rest.
[Sandi] She’s attempting
the most ambitious tart filling
in the tent today.
[Briony] It’s gonna have a dome
of dark chocolate filled with
a cherry mousse and then inside that
a little cherry jelly.
I am really nervous about
things not setting.
Just gotta keep going. Keep going.
Don't stop.
Bakers, you are halfway through
your Showstopper challenge.
-Shall I do it in French?
-Yeah.
[in French] My aunt’s pen is in the desk.
Is it two and a half hours
gone? Literally?
The tarts are done.
[Noel] After blind baking,
Ruby and Kim-Joy’s tarts
need further time in the oven...
Just bake that now.
[Noel] ...for their fillings.
Ah!
Done. Done. Not done yet.
Need to do.
[Sandi] Those who opted
for the simpler rough puff
can now prep their mille-feuille
for the oven.
I’m gonna bake it as a sheet like this.
[Sandi] However Briony’s choice
of full puff
means yet more rolling and resting.
I’m just very aware of the time, like,
you go at the rate of knots but you still
end up behind somehow.
Just keep rolling out my puff.
I’ve ticked most of the things
off on that list. You’re fine.
[Ruby] Don't, no. Don't write on that.
Okay. Just on the floor.
Just basically, get out my way.
[Kim-Joy] I think these might be ready.
[Sandi] In this ultimate test
of batch baking...
[Ruby] I’ll take these out.
[Sandi] ...the ovens must now make way
for the mille-feuille.
They’re going in at 200 degrees centigrade
for ten minutes.
[Sandi] Baked between sheets to prevent
the puff pastry rising too much.
As if they didn't have enough to juggle...
[Rahul] I’m not very good
in doing so many things together.
[Sandi] ...the bakers must now start work
on their third pastry.
Trying to multitask
and get my choux on the go.
[Sandi] Adding yet another stage
to this already Herculean challenge.
Making choux is really tricky
and I have failed so many times
making choux.
I just hope this time it’s going to work.
There’s so much to do.
It is a case of who’s got the stamina
to keep on going.
Ah... Oh. [panting]
I run a marathon,
course I’ve got the stamina.
Morning, Ruby.
-Morning.
-Hello, Ruby.
Hello.
-There was tension yesterday,
-Yes.
has it ramped up even more today?
I can't... I’ve not even realised
there’s three other bakers in here.
That’s how in the zone you end up getting.
You just block everything else out
and do what you’ve gotta do.
How are you going to be displaying
your pâtisseries?
I am... I have based it
on a bouquet of flowers.
That’s how I’d like
my window display to be.
[Prue] So that’s what
the freesias are about?
Yeah.
[Noel] Ruby’s floral window display
will feature strawberry
and mint flavoured mille-feuille
accompanied by chocolate
and hazelnut Saint-Honorés
and lemon verbena tartlets topped
with meringue and edible flowers.
You’ve chosen pretty punchy flavours,
verbena being one,
which carries a hell of a punch,
which is fantastic.
Just one word of advice.
Just make sure the flowers
-don't detract...
-Yes.
from the beauty of your bakes.
I will not allow that to happen.
She doesn't like too much stuff
that’s not edible.
-Noted. Thank you.
-[Paul] Thank you, Ruby.
[Noel] Kim-Joy’s also come equipped
to decorate with miniature floral bouquets
and despite the workload she’s added
yet another element to her choux.
[Kim-Joy] This is gonna be my craquelin.
What is craquelin?
It’s like biscuit basically,
but on a choux pastry.
-I knew that.
-Yeah.
I know a lot about baking.
I’m gonna bake everything I’ve learnt
in one day and eat it all.
-Yeah.
-And then collapse
and then sleep for a thousand years.
[Briony] I’m behind.
I can tell you that for nothing.
[Ruby] I’m gonna start piping.
[Rahul] This is gonna take so much time.
So, Kim-Joy, tell us
about your French window.
I’m doing 12, like, little religieuse.
Sorry, what is it?
-Religieuse.
-[Paul] Religieuse.
Religieuse.
It’s basically looks like a nun.
[Sandi] Kim-Joy’s choux nuns
will have a crunchy craquelin topping.
Her mango and passion fruit tarts
will be decorated
with meringue and fresh fruit,
her mille-feuille will be flavoured
with lemon and blueberry
and have a feathered icing topping.
You came back from a wobble yesterday.
That must make you
feel good about yourself.
Definitely, yeah. I think that might be
my proudest moment.
Just having that wobble and still going.
Well, good luck, Kim-Joy,
and do the best you can.
Yeah, thank you. Thank you so much.
-Thank you.
-Bye.
[Noel] While most bakers’
puff pastry is coming out...
[Rahul] I think it’s all right.
[Noel] ...and choux pastry going in...
So that’s going in at 220.
[Noel] ...Briony is playing catch up.
This is the puff pastry.
Just keep going. There’s no time to rest.
Choux is going to be last minute,
I tell you now.
Bakers, you have one hour left.
Right, let’s go.
Come on, kids, you can do this.
Need to get the choux pastry done
‘cause now it’s gonna be, like,
pastry out, pastry in,
pasty out, pastry in.
[Noel] Wow, what you doing?
[Rahul] Basically cutting
my strawberries in half.
There is a huge amount of work to do.
It’s gonna be really tight on time.
But still, feel free to stay
to see me dooming.
-Dooming?
-Yeah.
-Is that a new thing?
-Probably, yeah.
All the kids are dooming.
[Kim-Joy] Craquelin looks good.
Don't have time. Don't have time.
-Just gotta keep going.
-Ow. Ow.
You all right, Rubes?
[Ruby] Literally burning
every fingertip I have.
Uh, how are you doing in here? Oh, my God.
Such a giant puff.
Seriously. Way too puffy.
It’s not browning very well either,
which is a bit annoying.
‘Cause I need the oven, like,
pretty sharpish.
Is this all your work, darling?
All of this?
All of this.
That’s like a full bakery.
You look ahead of the game.
Shh! Don't let the game hear that.
[Sandi] For three of the semi-finalists...
I don't know if I’ve got enough time.
[Sandi] ...the painstaking task
of assembling...
[Rahul] Well, I have left to do a lot.
[Sandi] ...and decorating.
I don't know if I can finish.
[Sandi] Their 36 pastries...
[Ruby] Literally just not stopping.
Not even stopping for air.
[Sandi] ...can now begin in earnest.
Yeah, I’m not piping very well
‘cause I am just rushing.
Oh, no, it’s not good.
What do you mean?
Shit, the pastry’s not cooked properly.
-Look, it’s properly raw inside.
-Oh, no.
Oh, balls.
[Noel] No way of putting it back in?
[Briony] No. It’s fine.
[Noel] What happens if you do that?
Does it burn?
[Briony] Don't know. See how this one’s
quite doughy in the middle as well.
It’ll be all right.
Okay, it’s all good, it’s all good.
-It’ll be all right. Keep going.
-Carry on.
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
Half an hour, people.
It’s not good. It’s not good.
It’s all right.
I need to get these in otherwise
they’re gonna be raw as well.
[Ruby] They’ll probably turn around
and say
that’s just way too tall
for a mille-feuille.
But Paul can say what he wants to say.
[Briony] Right, I’m gonna
get my tarts done
and then least I’ve got one thing done.
This is just so, so bad.
Just have to go with that.
Okay, éclairs piping.
Oh, my back.
[Rahul] It’s not gonna get full completely
because I just don't have time.
They’re not even filled.
The fruit's not sitting on the dome
like it did at home.
They look rubbish.
So I’m just doing what I can now
‘cause I need to move onto
the mille-feuille with my raw dough,
so, yay, me.
Can I have a pastry brush, I guess?
-Pastry brush?
-Yeah.
I’ll get you one. What is a pastry brush?
It’s basically a brush.
For painting pastry?
Yeah. Something like that.
-For brushing pastry?
-Yeah.
Like a toothbrush but longer?
I’ll ask someone else.
Okay.
I don't know that I can actually
able to glaze my tarts.
Might just have to leave it like that.
I definitely can't do the feathering
on top. I just got no time.
Right, bakers, five minutes,
just five minutes
of the five hours are left.
[Ruby] These are edible flowers.
[Briony] What an epic disaster this is.
I know they look rubbish
but just gonna have to do.
For God’s sake. Please stick.
Please stick. Please stick.
Bakers, your time is up.
Please step away from your bakes.
-Oh.
-Well done.
[Briony] Well, that’s what
I call a mighty cock-up.
[Kim-Joy] Oh, my God.
[Briony] Wow,
they look incredible.
[Noel] The semi-finalists’
pastry shop displays
now face the judgement of Paul and Prue.
The whole thing about French pâtisserie
is about how delicate they are,
how small they are.
These are all quite chunky
and in fact, I look round,
and there’s a lot of big stuff here
and I wouldn't necessarily
agree with the size.
You can almost half every one of these.
It's all about delicacy.
It’s about punching a big flavour
in a small exquisite cake.
Okay, let’s start with the mille-feuille.
A dry top on mille-feuille?
I know. I ran out of time. I’m so sorry.
It looks very dull.
I know.
You could have cooked it a little longer.
If you do a mille-feuille the pastry
has to be totally crisp.
The good news, Kim-Joy, is that
the flavour is absolutely wonderful.
Ah.
[Paul] And these,
I don't like the look of them.
They’re all broken up.
What you should have done
is chosen the Italian meringue
and then blowtorched it.
Pastry’s lovely and I love the filling.
Okay, let’s move onto the choux.
They don't look too bad.
Maybe a little bit burnt in places.
Yeah, it’s caught a little bit.
[Prue] It’s a little bit dark, isn’t it?
Wow, that’s a terrible way to kill a nun.
[all laughing]
One of the real difficulties
with choux pastry
is filling it properly
and that’s properly filled.
It has got a nice orange flavour.
It is quite tart and I like that.
But I don't agree
with the craquelin though.
Problem is when you bake with craquelin
is when you’re baking it,
it colours quicker
than the actual choux itself
and so you bring it out the oven
thinking it’s ready
and that’s not necessarily the case.
I think overall the idea
was there on all of them
but I think the execution hasn't been
as good as it could have been.
No.
Well, I must say they are very pretty
and beautifully decorated,
I would say with the exception
of the Saint-Honorés.
I think the caramel is much too thick.
I love the idea but again
they’re just too big
-and these are huge.
-Okay. Yeah.
But, um, it’s all down to the bake now
and flavour.
[Prue] The puff pastry looks
really nicely baked
and I’m hoping that it will be
not soft in the middle.
These layers are very good.
They’re very well baked.
There is not a wet bit in there at all.
It’s just dry and it’s flaking.
That’s how it should be.
-[Prue] Beautiful.
-Thank you.
[Prue] Really good.
I love the mint.
-The mint is just delicious.
-It’s delicate, isn’t it?
Delicious.
-Okay.
[Prue] Next one.
What is the pastry underneath?
It’s a shortbread.
[Prue] Flavour’s delicious.
It is clever.
The choux buns are baked well.
The flavour in there is pretty good.
[Prue] And the chocolate filling’s lovely.
Your base is fantastic,
‘cause that is just crispy
all the way through.
I think you’ve done a good job with that.
Pipe work’s good,
I think the choice of meringue is good
but I don't like fruit that’s unglazed.
-[Ruby] Okay.
-Any fruit that’s unglazed looks
unfinished.
That lemon curd is so powerful
and so strong.
-It’s verbena. It’s that concentrate.
-[Ruby] Yeah.
It’s a strong flavour.
If you'd had maybe a raspberry coulis
that would have been enough
because the pastry’s baked really well.
This pastry looks a little bit thick.
You know, we’re looking for delicacy
and this is massive.
I mean, this is colossal.
It just looks a bit clumsy, doesn't it?
[Briony] Yeah. No, I agree.
Oh, dear the mousse has run.
Oh, dear. Yeah.
Potent flavours. The flavours are okay.
Your tart case is quite chewy.
Oh, right, okay.
-And...
-Too thick.
[Paul] These look okay.
If they were smaller,
they would be really nice.
I could see that in a Parisian shop.
-[Briony] I’m sorry about...
-What are these filled with?
I didn’t have time to fill them.
I’m really sorry.
So this is just plain pastry with...
What’s this?
Yeah. That’s lemon crème pat.
Quite a lot of salt in the pastry.
Oh, really?
[Paul] Yeah, it’s very salty.
I probably put two teaspoons of salt in
instead of sugar the way today went.
[laughing]
[Paul] And then the mille-feuille,
your pastry is raw.
Yes. Yes.
-It is very raw.
-Yeah.
Coffee crème pat, it's got a nice flavour
but you’ve cooked it too much.
-Oh, okay.
-[Prue] I like those flavours,
with the caramel particularly it’s nice
but, um, it’s actually also quite salty.
Maybe you were thinking salted caramel.
[Paul] Did you mix
your salt and sugar up today?
I don't know, maybe I did. Sorry.
Briony, don't say sorry to us.
I mean, it’s to you you have to say sorry
-‘cause you can do much better than this.
-I know I can.
And this was not the time to get it wrong.
You can’t put that in a shop
when it’s not finished.
To glaze them at the end of this
would have taken you,
-minute? If that. If that.
-[Rahul] Yeah.
And after five hours, you couldn't do it.
That is an absolutely classic
French tartlet without the glaze.
I think the flavours are good.
I think your base is a little bit thick.
Okay, we’ll try the éclair.
They’re probably not completely full.
I think the flavour’s lovely.
That has got a bit of salt in it too
but not too much.
Pastry’s a little soft
but I think it’s about right.
But the top isn’t very neat.
-[Rahul] No.
-Caramel’s all over the place.
I don't like the flavours. It’s boring.
It really is boring.
I wouldn't go as far as to say it’s boring
but it’s certainly not the most exciting
éclair I’ve ever eaten.
[Paul] This one here is the one
that worries me the most.
Yeah.
[Paul] Oh, great flavour.
Wow.
I didn't think I was gonna
like that at all.
It’s delicious.
Really good.
It looks hideous but it tastes amazing.
Thank you.
[Paul] With that cream inside
and the blueberries
and with that bite coming from the curd
is just stunning, isn’t it?
-Thank you, Rahul.
-[Prue] Hmm. Thank you, Rahul.
Okay, so semi-final.
Parisian window.
Is this what you imagined?
[Paul] Some of them were nearly there,
they had all the elements.
But some of them were way off the mark.
Rahul hasn't had a particularly good day.
All right, the pastry tastes all right
but it looks terrible.
I don't know what’s happened to him
because he’s definitely gone
a bit backwards.
Let’s talk about Briony for a minute.
[Prue] I was really surprised
because Briony knew that today was the day
she had to pull out all the stops
and usually that’s the sort of challenge
that makes her do her best stuff.
It doesn’t help if your salt
and your sugar get confused.
I mean, I’m not a baker
but I’m gonna guess...
I think that’s exactly what happened.
I think Ruby overall has done well.
I love the idea of the choux,
the, the Saint-Honorés
with the biscuit base
‘cause actually that worked.
It had fabulous flavours
and that pastry was beautiful
but I think it looks awful.
I think, uh, the idea of the religieuses,
which Kim-Joy did was pretty good.
The flavours were there.
I just... on a personal opinion,
I didn't like the craquelin on the top.
But if I had to choose
one of all of these things to eat...
Yeah, which one?
It’s probably the one
that looks the worst,
which is Rahul’s mille-feuille.
It was sensational flavour.
-Shall I go for it? Is it good?
-Yeah, it’s delicious.
Go on.
You can’t get it into your mouth.
I mean, they’re big for Sandi.
These are like double-decker buses.
-Yeah.
-That’s the biggest thing I’ve ever eaten.
You won’t have to eat again now
until next week.
No. No. That’s it.
Well done, my lovely bakers,
getting through the semi-final.
I’ve got the good job
this week of announcing
the Star Baker.
The person who is this week’s Star Baker
and who will definitely
be going through to the final is...
Ruby.
-I knew it.
-[Ruby] Oh, my God.
On a roll, baby girl. On a roll.
-Oh, my God.
-Yeah.
So my job now
is to be completely professional
and not cry at all.
Uh, it’s tricky because, uh,
we are so fond
of all of you and the person
who is going home
has been a complete force of nature
in this tent.
And I’m afraid the person who is...
...not going through to the final...
...is Briony.
-It’s okay. It’s okay.
-I’m so sorry.
It’s okay. It’s okay.
That was the right decision.
Oh, I’m so sorry my friend. I’m so sorry.
It’s okay. Thank you for you kind words.
It’s okay.
[voice breaking] Sad to not be
going through to the final
but so happy with how far I’ve come.
Like, my God, in so many ways.
What an experience.
Oh, my God, my musketeer.
Nobody wanted to see Briony go
because she has been
so good at coming back
when things have gone wrong.
Yeah, I still love baking.
I love baking more than ever.
Knowing that I can do
more than I ever thought I could.
I don't often say that I’m proud of myself
but I am. I’m proud of myself.
[Rahul] Can’t believe that.
The person who never baked a single cake
till his 29th birthday is a finalist.
-[Briony] Well done, guys. Come here.
-Oh, guys.
I actually think there’s gonna be
a fantastic final next week.
We’ve got three great bakers.
Each one of them
have this very artistic flair.
If they bring their A game,
that is gonna be the best final ever,
I promise you.
I bet you’re shocked. You’re shocked.
You can tell me.
I was hoping Ruby would get Star Baker
‘cause then we’ve all got two Star Bakers.
So it must be, like,
the most evenly balanced final ever.
Right?